=encoding utf8

=head1 Assets in RT

Assets start as a small set of fundamental record data upon which you build
custom fields (CFs) of any type you like to describe the assets you want to
track.  By themselves, before you setup any CFs, assets are not very useful.

=head2 Adding fields

You can see the current asset CFs by navigating to Tools → Configuration →
Global → Custom Fields → Assets.  From there you can use the "Create new" link
to create a new asset CF.  If you know you want to create a new CF right away,
you can do so via Tools → Configuration → Custom Fields → Create.

When creating a CF, be sure to select "Assets" in the "Applies To" dropdown.
You'll also need to grant rights to the groups and/or roles which need to see
the fields, otherwise they'll be hidden.  See the following section.

=head2 Rights

There are three rights controlling basic access to assets:

=head3 ShowAsset

Allows viewing an asset record and it's core fields (but not CFs).  Without
it, no assets can be seen.  Similar to ShowTicket.

=head3 CreateAsset

Allows creating assets and filling in the core fields (but not CFs).  Without
it, no assets can be created.  Similar to CreateTicket.

=head3 ModifyAsset

Allows modifying existing assets and their core fields (but not CFs).  Without
it, basic asset data cannot be modified after creation.  Similar to
ModifyTicket.

Most of your rights configuration will be on the CFs, and will likely need to
be done for each CF.  This lets you fine tune which fields are visible to
individual groups and/or roles of users.  Relevant CF rights are
B<SeeCustomField> and B<ModifyCustomField>.

Rights related to assets may also come from the L</Lifecycle statuses>
configuration and restrict status transitions.

=head3 Typical configuration

A typical configuration grants the system Privileged group the following:
B<ShowAsset>, B<CreateAsset>, B<ModifyAsset> globally, and B<SeeCustomField> and
B<ModifyCustomField> globally on all asset CFs.

If you want self service users (Unprivileged) to be able to view the assets
they hold, grant the Held By role B<ShowAsset> globally and B<SeeCustomField>
on the necessary asset CFs.

=head2 People and Roles

Just like tickets, assets have various roles which users and groups may be
assigned to.  The intended usages of these roles are described below, but
you're free to use them for whatever you'd like, of course.

The roles provide ways to keep track of who is involved with each asset, as
well as providing a place to grant rights to.

=head3 Contact

The person or people who should be contacted with questions, problems,
notifications, etc. about the asset.  Contacts share some of the same intended
usages of both Requestors and Ccs on tickets.

May be multiple users and/or groups.

=head3 Held By

The person or people who physically possess the asset or are actively using the
asset (if it isn't physical).  This may be the same as the Contacts or may be
different.  For example, a computer workstation may be "held by" a university
professor, but the contact may be the IT staff member responsible for all
assets in the professor's department.  This role is most similar to Requestor on tickets,
although not equivalent.

May be multiple users and/or groups.

=head3 Owner

The person responsible for the asset, perhaps the purchaser or manager.

Restricted to a single user.

=head2 Lifecycle statuses

One of the basic asset fields is "Status".  Similar to tickets, the valid
statuses and their transitions and actions can be customized via RT's standard
Lifecycles configuration (see "Lifecycles" in F<RT_Config.pm>).  Currently only
one lifecycle, named "assets", is supported, but you can modify it as much as
you wish.

For the default configuration, see F<etc/Assets_Config.pm>.

=head2 Field organization

=head3 Groupings

You can organize your asset CFs into visual and logical "groupings" as you see
fit.  These groupings appear as separate boxes on the asset display page and
become separate pages for editing (showing up in the per-asset menu).

By default your CFs will appear in a B<Custom Fields> box on the asset display
page and will be editable from a box of the same name on the B<Basics> editing
page.

Using the C<%CustomFieldGroupings> option (documented in F<etc/RT_Config.pm>),
you can move individual CFs by name into one of the four built-in groupings
(B<Basics>, B<People>, B<Dates>, and B<Links>) or create your own just by
naming it.  An example, assuming a date CF named "Purchased" and two "enter one
value" CFs named "Weight" and "Color":

    # In etc/RT_SiteConfig.pm
    Set(%CustomFieldGroupings,
        'RT::Asset' => {
            'Dates'                 => ['Purchased'],
            'Physical Properties'   => ['Weight', 'Color'],
        },
    );

This configuration snippet will move all three CFs out of the generic B<Custom
Fields> box and into the B<Dates> box and a new box titled B<Physical
Properties>.  The "Purchased" CF will be editable from the Dates page and a new
page titled "Physical Properties" will appear in the menu to allow editing of
the "Weight" and "Color" CFs.

=head3 Ordering

Within a box, CFs come after any built-in asset fields such as Name,
Description, Created, Last Updated, etc.  The CFs themselves are ordered
according to the sorting seen (and adjustable) on the global Asset Custom
Fields page (Tools → Configuration → Global → Custom Fields → Assets).

=head2 Importing existing data

Another extension, L<RT::Extension::Assets::Import> provides tools to import
new and update existing assets from a CSV dump.  Its configuration lets you
map the fields in the CSV to the asset fields you've already created in RT.

=cut
